CONTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT (combined template)

Thank you for your interest in providing one or more contributions to ___________ ("We" or
"Us").  We refer to the contributor as "You". 

In order to document the copyright and other rights granted with Contributions (as defined
below), We collect a Contributor Agreement ("Agreement") from You which confirms your
agreement to the terms below. Please follow the instructions at the end of the document to
make it effective. This is a legally binding document, so please read it carefully before
agreeing to it. The Agreement provides for submission of Contributions to more than one
software project managed by Us. 

1. DEFINITIONS

1.1 "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship that is Submitted to Us in which You
own the Copyright. If You do not own the Copyright in the entire work of authorship
Submitted, You should follow the procedure in Section 3(d).

1.2 "Copyright" shall mean all rights protecting works of authorship, including copyright,
moral and neighboring rights, as appropriate, for the full term of their existence
including any extensions owned or controlled by You [or Your Affiliates].

1.3 "Effective Date" shall mean the earlier of your execution of this Agreement or your
first submission of a Contribution to Us.

[1.4 "Legal Entity" shall mean a corporation, limited liability company or other entity.]

1.5 "Media" shall mean any Contribution which is not software. Media may include video,
text or images.  

1.6 "Patent Claims" shall mean any patent claim(s), now owned or acquired in the future,
including without limitation,  method, process, and apparatus claims which You [or Your
Affiliates] (a) owned or controlled by You [or Your Affiliates] or (b) which You [or Your
Affiliates] or have the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether on the
Submission Date of the relevant Contribution or subsequently acquired, under the terms of
Section 2.1(b), but only to the extent to which the making, using, having made, selling,
offering for sale, importing or otherwise transferring of the Contribution or the
Contribution with a Work infringes such Patent Claims.

1.7 "Submission" shall mean the work of authorship which You have Submitted.  A Submission
may consist of only a Contribution or may include third party works of authorship in
addition to the Contribution.  "Submitted" shall mean any form of electronic, verbal, or
written communication sent to Us or our representatives, including but not limited to
communication of electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking
systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, Us for the purpose of discussing and
improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
designated in writing by You as "Not a Contribution."

1.8 "Submission Date" shall mean the date on which a Contribution is Submitted to Us.  

1.9 "Work" shall mean the work or works of authorship which are software made available by
Us to third parties but not including the Contribution.  This Agreement may cover
Submissions to one or more Works. 

1.10(Individual) "You" shall mean any individual on behalf of whom a Contribution has been
received by Us.

1.10(Entity) “You” shall mean any Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been
received by Us. “Affiliates” shall mean other Legal Entities that are controlled by,
controlling or under common control by a Legal Entity. For the purposes of this
definition, “control” means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or
management of such Legal Entity, whether by contract or otherwise, (ii) ownership of fifty
percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or securities which vote to elect the
management or other persons who direct such Legal Entity or (iii) beneficial ownership of
such entity.

2. TRANSFER OPTIONS

2.1 Copyright License/Patent License

(a) You retain ownership of the Copyright and Patent Claims in your Contributions and have
the same rights to use or license the Contributions which You would have had without
entering into the Agreement.

(b) To the maximum extent permitted by the relevant law, You grant to Us a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free, irrevocable license under the
Copyrights covering the Contribution, with the right to sublicense such rights through
multiple tiers of sublicensees, to reproduce, modify, display,  perform and distribute the
Contribution as part of the Work; provided that this license is conditioned upon
compliance with Section 2.1(d).  

(c) You grant to Us a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free,
irrevocable license under the Patent Claims, with the right to sublicense these rights to
multiple tiers of sublicensees, to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, import and
otherwise transfer the Contribution and the Contribution in combination with the Work in
which the Contribution is included (and portions of such combination) as it exists on the
Submission Date of that Contribution; provided that this license is conditioned upon
compliance with Section 2.1(d). 

(d)(Option One) As a condition on the [license/grant of] rights in Sections 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included (including any rights to adopt any future version of a license if permitted). 

(d)(Option Two) As a condition on the [license/grant of] rights in Sections 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or the following additional licenses__________ (including any right to adopt
any future version of a license if permitted). 

(d)(Option Three) As a condition on the [license/grant of] rights in Sections 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or any licenses which are approved by the Open Source Initiative on or after
the Effective Date, including both permissive and copyleft licenses, whether or not such
licenses are subsequently disapproved (including any right to adopt any future version of
a license if permitted).

(d)(Option Four) As a condition on the [license/grant of] rights in Sections 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or any licenses which are recommended by the Free Software Foundation for use
in GNU projects on or after the Effective Date, whether or not such licenses are
subsequently disapproved (including any right to adopt any future version of a license if
permitted).

(d)(Option Five) Based on the [license/grant of] rights granted in Section 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), if We include Your Contribution in a Work, We may license such Contribution under
any license, including copyleft, permissive, commercial, or proprietary licenses, but  as
a condition of the exercise of this right in Section 2.1(d),  We agree to license the
Contribution under the terms of  the license or licenses which We are using on the
Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution is included.

(e) In addition to the license selected above in Section 2.1(d), We may use the following
additional licenses for the Media portion of the Contribution: __________ (including any
right to adopt any future version of a license if permitted).

2.1 Copyright Assignment/Patent License

(a) At the time the Contribution is Submitted, You assign all right, title, and interest
worldwide in all Copyrights covering the Contribution to Us; provided that this transfer
is conditioned upon compliance with Section 2.1(f).

(b) To the extent any of the rights, title and interest in the Copyrights in Section
2.1(a) are not assigned by You to Us, You grant to Us a perpetual, worldwide, exclusive,
royalty-free, transferable, irrevocable license under such non assigned Copyrights, with
rights to sublicense through multiple tiers of sublicensees, to practice such non-assigned
rights, including, but not limited to, the right to reproduce, modify, display, perform
and distribute the Contribution provided that this transfer is conditioned upon compliance
with Section 2.1(f).

(c) To the extent any of the rights in and to the Copyrights covering the Contribution can
neither be assigned nor licensed by You to Us, You irrevocably waive and agree never to
assert such rights against Us, any of our successors in interest, or any of our licensees,
either direct or indirect; provided that this transfer is conditioned upon compliance with
Section 2.1(f).

(d) Upon such transfer of rights to Us, to the maximum extent permitted by law for the
Copyrights to the extent transferred by You under Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and 2.1(c), We
immediately grant to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free,
transferable, irrevocable license under such rights covering the Contribution, with rights
to sublicense through multiple tiers of sublicensees, to reproduce, modify, display,
perform, and distribute the Contribution. The intention of the parties is that this
license will be as broad as possible and to provide You with rights as similar as possible
to the owner of the rights that You transferred. This license back is limited to the
Contribution and does not provide any rights to the Work.

(e) You grant to Us a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free,
irrevocable license under the Patent Claims, with the right to sublicense these rights to
multiple tiers of sublicensees, to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, import and
otherwise transfer the Contribution and the Contribution in combination with the Work in
which the Contribution is included (and portions of such combination) as it exists on the
Submission Date of that Contribution.

(f)(Option One) As a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included (including any rights to adopt any future version of a license if permitted).

(f)(Option Two) As a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or the following additional licenses__________ (including any right to adopt
any future version of a license if permitted).

(f)(Option Three) As a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or any licenses which are approved by the Open Source Initiative on or after
the Effective Date, including both permissive and copyleft licenses, whether or not such
licenses are subsequently disapproved (including any right to adopt any future version of
a license if permitted).

(f)(Option Four) As a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), We agree to license the Contribution only under the terms of the license or
licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Work in which the Contribution
is included or any licenses which are recommended by the Free Software Foundation for use
in GNU projects on or after the Effective Date, whether or not such licenses are
subsequently disapproved (including any right to adopt any future version of a license if
permitted).

(f)(Option Five) Based on the grant of rights granted in Sections 2.1(a), 2.1(b) and
2.1(c), if We include Your Contribution in a Work, We may license such Contribution under
any license, including copyleft, permissive, commercial, or proprietary licenses, but as a
condition of the exercise of this right in Section 2.1(f), We agree to license the
Contribution under the terms of the license or licenses which We are using for the Work in
which the Contribution is included on the Submission Date.

(g) In addition to the license selected above in Section 2.1(f), We may use the following
additional licenses for the Media portion of the Contribution: __________ (including any
right to adopt any future version of a license if permitted). 

2.2 Moral Rights. If moral rights apply to the Contribution, to the maximum extent
permitted by law, You waive and agree not to assert such moral rights against Us or our
successors in interest, or any of our licensees, either direct or indirect.

2.3 Our Rights. You acknowledge that We are not obligated to use your Contribution as part
of the Work distributed by Us and may make the decision to include any Contribution as it
believes is appropriate.

2.4 Reservation of Rights. Any rights not expressly [assigned or] licensed under this
section are expressly reserved by You.

3. AGREEMENT

You confirm that:

(a) You have the legal authority to enter into this Agreement.

(b) as provided in the definitions, You reaffirm that You [or Your Affiliates] own the
Copyrights and the Patent Claims covering the Contribution which are required to grant the
rights under Section 2. 

(c)(Individual) The grant of rights under Section 2 does not violate any grant of rights
which You have made to third parties, including your employer.  If You are an employee,
You have had your employer approve this Agreement and sign this document if required by Us
as described in Section 3.4(d).  If You are less than eighteen years old, please have your
parents or guardian sign the Agreement, if such approval is required by Us as described in
Section 3.4(d). 

(c)(Entity) The grant of rights under Section 2 does not violate any grant of rights which
You or Your Affiliates have made to third parties.

(d) If You do not own the copyright in part or all of the Submission, You will follow the
procedure set forth by Us in _________.

4. DISCLAIMER

EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES IN ARTICLE 3, THE CONTRIBUTION IS
PROVIDED "AS IS". MORE PARTICULARLY, ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE EXPRESSLY
DISCLAIMED BY YOU TO US [AND BY US TO YOU]. TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH
WARRANTIES CANNOT BE DISCLAIMED, SUCH WARRANTY IS LIMITED IN DURATION TO
THE MINIMUM PERIOD PERMITTED BY LAW.  

5. CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE WAIVER

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL YOU [OR
US] BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, LOSS OF
DATA, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL AND EXEMPLARY DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY
(CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE) UPON WHICH THE CLAIM
IS BASED.

6. MISCELLANEOUS

6.1 Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the _________ excluding its conflicts of law provisions. Under certain
circumstances, the governing law in this section might be superseded by the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods ("UN Convention") and the
parties intend to avoid the application of the UN Convention to this Agreement and, thus,
exclude the application of the UN Convention in its entirety to this Agreement.

6.2 Miscellaneous Provisions. This Agreement sets out the entire agreement between You and
Us for your Contributions to Us and overrides all other agreements or understandings.
Either party may assign the rights and obligations under the Agreement to any third party
if the third party agrees, as a condition of the assignment,  in writing to abide by the
rights and obligations in the Agreement. The failure of either party to require
performance by the other party of any provision of this Agreement in one situation shall
not affect the right of a party to require such performance at any time in the future and
a waiver of performance under a provision in one situation shall not be considered a
waiver of the performance of the provision in the future or a waiver of the provision in
its entirety. If any provision of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable, such
provision will be replaced to the extent possible with a provision that comes closest to
the meaning of the original provision and which is enforceable.  The terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement shall apply notwithstanding any failure of essential purpose
of this Agreement or any limited remedy to the maximum extent possible under law.

The parties agree to the terms of the Agreement and indicate such agreement as described
in _________.

You (Individual)
________________________
Name:    ______________________
Address: ______________________
         ______________________

YOU (Legal Entity)
________________________
Name:    ______________________
Title:   _______________________
Address: ______________________
         ______________________

Us
________________________
Name:    ______________________
Title:   _______________________
Address: ______________________
         ______________________
